FROM: COO
TO:   Frontend
DATE: 2026-03-08 18:00
RE:   NR-06 — Offline retry policy specification (geocoding)

---

REQUIREMENT

NR-06 (accepted BRD delta, 2026-03-08): The application must implement a
defined offline retry policy for geocoding operations, with progressive
backoff, user-visible state, and manual reconnect affordance.

This spec must be implemented before the Frontend phase is declared complete.
It is a beta-mandatory requirement.

---

PRODUCT RULE SET

1. RETRY CLASSES

  Class A — Background geocode (user not waiting)
    Trigger: City POST or PATCH where geocoding fails due to network/timeout.
    Behaviour: Retry silently in background per schedule below.
    User state: Subtle offline indicator appears; no blocking modal.

  Class B — Foreground geocode (user is waiting on a result)
    Trigger: User explicitly triggers a city lookup and network fails.
    Behaviour: Immediate failure message; offer manual retry button.
    User state: Inline error with "Retry" affordance.

2. RETRY SCHEDULE (applies to Class A)

  Attempt 1:  Immediately on failure
  Attempt 2:  30 seconds
  Attempt 3:  2 minutes
  Attempt 4:  5 minutes
  Attempt 5+: 10 minutes (hold at this cadence indefinitely)

  Policy: Retry indefinitely. Do NOT discard the pending geocode operation.
  Rationale: A user may be offline for hours (travel, rural, flight).
  The city record already exists in the database; the geocode result
  enriches it. Loss of the retry is loss of data enrichment.

3. RESTART PERSISTENCE

  Pending geocode retry state must survive a page reload.
  Implementation: Store pending geocode operations in localStorage under
  the key `geocode_retry_queue`. On app init, read queue and resume
  retrying from where the schedule left off.

  Queue entry shape:
    {
      cityId: string,
      cityName: string,
      countryCode: string,
      attemptCount: number,
      nextRetryAt: ISO8601 string
    }

  On successful geocode: remove entry from queue and persist updated city
  to backend. On 404 (city deleted): remove entry and discard silently.

4. USER-VISIBLE STATE

  While any Class A retry is queued:
    - Show a small offline/sync indicator (e.g. cloud-with-slash icon or
      "Geocoding pending" text) in the application header or status bar.
    - Do not block any user action. The app remains fully usable.

  Manual reconnect affordance:
    - The offline indicator must be clickable/tappable.
    - On click: immediately attempt all pending retries (ignore schedule).
    - This allows a user who just reconnected to force immediate resolution
      without waiting for the next scheduled attempt.

  On successful resolution of all queued items:
    - Indicator disappears.
    - No success toast required (silent success is acceptable).

5. PERMANENT FAILURE DEFINITION

  There is no permanent failure for geocoding in Phase 1.
  Retry indefinitely. The only reasons to remove a queue entry are:
    (a) Successful geocode — resolved.
    (b) City record deleted by user — discard silently.
    (c) User explicitly cancels (see below).

  Manual cancel affordance:
    - From the offline indicator, provide a "Dismiss / stop retrying" option.
    - On dismiss: clear the retry queue and hide the indicator.
    - This is the only path to stopping retries.
    - Rationale: Do not auto-expire retry attempts; the user decides when
      to give up on enriching the data.

---

IMPLEMENTATION GUIDANCE

- Use a single service/hook (e.g. useGeocodeRetryQueue or geocodeRetryService)
  to manage queue, scheduling, and persistence.
- Do not couple this to any specific page or component — it runs app-wide.
- The retry service should be initialised in App.tsx or equivalent root.
- Geocoding calls should go through this service so all failures are captured.

---

ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA (NR-06)

  AC-NR06-01: City geocode failure queues a retry entry in localStorage.
  AC-NR06-02: Retry schedule follows Class A cadence (30s, 2m, 5m, 10m+).
  AC-NR06-03: Queue survives page reload; retries resume on next app init.
  AC-NR06-04: Offline indicator visible while any retry is pending.
  AC-NR06-05: Offline indicator is clickable and triggers immediate retry.
  AC-NR06-06: Manual dismiss clears the queue and hides the indicator.
  AC-NR06-07: Class B (foreground) failures show inline error + Retry button.
  AC-NR06-08: Successful geocode removes entry from queue; indicator clears.

---

SEQUENCING

Implement NR-06 after BUG-03/04/05 fixes are complete.
NR-06 does not depend on BUG-01 or BUG-02.

Notify COO inbox when NR-06 is implemented and AC-NR06-01 through AC-NR06-08
can be demonstrated.

COO
